<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>II: The Eavesdropper</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">II</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Eavesdropper</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>It is one of the canons of correct conduct, scrupulously adhered to (when convenient) by all well-bred persons, that an acquaintance should be initiated by a proper introduction. To this salutary rule, which I have disregarded to the extent of an entire chapter, I now hasten to conform; and the more so inasmuch as nearly two years have passed since my first informal appearance.</p>
			<p>Permit me then, to introduce Paul Berkeley, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">M.B.</abbr>, <abbr>etc.</abbr>, recently‚ÅÝ‚Äîvery recently‚ÅÝ‚Äîqualified, faultlessly attired in the professional frock-coat and tall hat, and, at the moment of introduction, navigating with anxious care a perilous strait between a row of well-filled coal-sacks and a colossal tray piled high with kidney potatoes.</p>
			<p>The passage of this strait landed me on the terra firma of Fleur-de-Lys Court, where I halted for a moment to consult my visiting list. There was only one more patient for me to see this morning, and he lived at 49, Nevill‚Äôs Court, wherever that might be. I turned for information to the presiding deity of the coal shop.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCan you direct me, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝJablett, to Nevill‚Äôs Court?‚Äù</p>
			<p>She could and she did, grasping me confidentially by the arm (the mark remained on my sleeve for weeks) and pointing a shaking forefinger at the dead wall ahead. ‚ÄúNevill‚Äôs Court,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝJablett, ‚Äúis a alley, and you goes into it through a archway. It turns out on Fetter Lane on the right ‚Äôand as you goes up, oppersight Bream‚Äôs Buildings.‚Äù</p>
			<p>I thanked <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝJablett and went on my way, glad that the morning round was nearly finished, and vaguely conscious of a growing appetite and of a desire to wash in hot water.</p>
			<p>The practice which I was conducting was not my own. It belonged to poor Dick Barnard, an old <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">St.</abbr>¬ÝMargaret‚Äôs man of irrepressible spirits and indifferent physique, who had started only the day before for a trip down the Mediterranean on board a tramp engaged in the currant trade; and this, my second morning‚Äôs round, was in some sort a voyage of geographical discovery.</p>
			<p>I walked on briskly up Fetter Lane until a narrow arched opening, bearing the superscription ‚ÄúNevill‚Äôs Court,‚Äù arrested my steps, and here I turned to encounter one of those surprises that lie in wait for the traveler in London byways. Expecting to find the gray squalor of the ordinary London court, I looked out from under the shadow of the arch past a row of decent little shops through a vista full of light and color‚ÅÝ‚Äîa vista of ancient, warm-toned roofs and walls relieved by sunlit foliage. In the heart of London a tree is always a delightful surprise; but here were not only trees, but bushes and even flowers. The narrow footway was bordered by little gardens, which, with their wooden palings and well-kept shrubs, gave to the place an air of quaint and sober rusticity; and even as I entered, a bevy of workgirls, with gaily-colored blouses and hair aflame in the sunlight, brightened up the quiet background like the wild flowers that spangle a summer hedgerow.</p>
			<p>In one of the gardens I noticed that the little paths were paved with what looked like circular tiles, but which, on inspection, I found to be old-fashioned stone ink-bottles, buried bottom upwards; and I was meditating upon the quaint conceit of the forgotten scrivener who had thus adorned his habitation‚ÅÝ‚Äîa law-writer perhaps or an author, or perchance even a poet‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhen I perceived the number that I was seeking inscribed on a shabby door in a high wall. There was no bell or knocker, so, lifting the latch, I pushed the door open and entered.</p>
			<p>But if the court itself had been a surprise, this was a positive wonder, a dream. Here, within earshot of the rumble of Fleet Street, I was in an old-fashioned garden enclosed by high walls and, now that the gate was shut, cut off from all sight and knowledge of the urban world that seethed without. I stood and gazed in delighted astonishment. Sun-gilded trees and flower beds gay with blossom; lupins, snapdragons, nasturtiums, spiry foxgloves, and mighty hollyhocks formed the foreground; over which a pair of sulphur-tinted butterflies flitted, unmindful of a buxom and miraculously clean white cat which pursued them, dancing across the borders and clapping her snowy paws fruitlessly in midair. And the background was no less wonderful; a grand old house, dark-eaved and venerable, that must have looked down on this garden when ruffled dandies were borne in sedan chairs through the court, and gentle Izaak Walton, stealing forth from his shop in Fleet Street, strolled up Fetter Lane to ‚Äúgo a-angling‚Äù at Temple Mills.</p>
			<p>So overpowered was I by this unexpected vision that my hand was on the bottom knob of a row of bellpulls before I recollected myself; and it was not until a most infernal jangling from within recalled me to my business that I observed underneath it a small brass plate inscribed ‚ÄúMiss Oman.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The door opened with some suddenness and a short, middle-aged woman surveyed me hungrily.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHave I rung the wrong bell?‚Äù I asked‚ÅÝ‚Äîfoolishly enough, I must admit.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow can I tell?‚Äù she demanded. ‚ÄúI expect you have. It‚Äôs the sort of thing a man would do‚ÅÝ‚Äîring the wrong bell and then say he‚Äôs sorry.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI didn‚Äôt go as far as that,‚Äù I retorted. ‚ÄúIt seems to have had the desired effect, and I‚Äôve made your acquaintance into the bargain.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhom do you want to see?‚Äù she asked.</p>
			<p>‚Äú<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝBellingham.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAre you the doctor?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm <em>a</em> doctor.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFollow me upstairs,‚Äù said Miss Oman, ‚Äúand don‚Äôt tread on the paint.‚Äù</p>
			<p>I crossed the spacious hall, and preceded by my conductress, ascended a noble oak staircase, treading carefully on a ribbon of matting that ran up the middle. On the first-floor landing Miss Oman opened a door and, pointing to the room, said, ‚ÄúGo in there and wait; I‚Äôll tell her you‚Äôre here.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI said <em><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr></em> Bellingham‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù I began; but the door slammed on me, and Miss Oman‚Äôs footsteps retreated rapidly down the stairs.</p>
			<p>It was at once obvious to me that I was in a very awkward position. The room into which I had been shown communicated with another, and though the door of communication was shut, I was unpleasantly aware of a conversation that was taking place in the adjoining room. At first, indeed, only a vague mutter, with a few disjointed phrases, came through the door, but suddenly an angry voice rang out clear and painfully distinct.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, I did! And I say it again. Bribery! Collusion! That‚Äôs what it amounts to. You want to square me!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNothing of the kind, Godfrey,‚Äù was the reply in a lower tone; but at this point I coughed emphatically and moved a chair, and the voices subsided once more into an indistinct murmur.</p>
			<p>To distract my attention from my unseen neighbors I glanced curiously about the room and speculated upon the personalities of its occupants. A very curious room it was, with its pathetic suggestion of decayed splendor and old-world dignity; a room full of interest and character and of contrasts and perplexing contradictions. For the most part it spoke of unmistakable though decent poverty. It was nearly bare of furniture, and what little there was was of the cheapest‚ÅÝ‚Äîa small kitchen table and three Windsor chairs (two of them with arms); a threadbare string carpet on the floor, and a cheap cotton cloth on the table; these, with a set of bookshelves, frankly constructed of grocer‚Äôs boxes, formed the entire suite. And yet, despite its poverty, the place exhaled an air of homely if rather ascetic comfort, and the taste was irreproachable. The quiet russet of the tablecloth struck a pleasant harmony with the subdued bluish green of the worn carpet; the Windsor chairs and the legs of the table had been carefully denuded of their glaring varnish and stained a sober brown: and the austerity of the whole was relieved by a ginger jar filled with fresh-cut flowers and set in the middle of the table.</p>
			<p>But the contrasts of which I have spoken were most singular and puzzling. There were the bookshelves, for instance, home made and stained at the cost of a few pence, but filled with recent and costly new works on archeology and ancient art. There were the objects on the mantelpiece: a facsimile in bronze‚ÅÝ‚Äînot bronze plaster‚ÅÝ‚Äîof the beautiful head of Hypnos and a pair of fine Ushabti figures. There were the decorations of the walls, a number of etchings‚ÅÝ‚Äîsigned proofs, every one of them‚ÅÝ‚Äîof Oriental subjects, and a splendid facsimile reproduction of an Egyptian papyrus. It was incongruous in the extreme, this mingling of costly refinements with the barest and shabbiest necessaries of life, of fastidious culture with manifest poverty. I could make nothing of it. What manner of man, I wondered, was this new patient of mine? Was he a miser, hiding himself and his wealth in this obscure court? An eccentric savant? A philosopher? Or‚ÅÝ‚Äîmore probably‚ÅÝ‚Äîa crank? But at this point my meditations were interrupted by the voice from the adjoining room, once more raised in anger.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut I say that you <em>are</em> making an accusation! You are implying that I made away with him.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot at all,‚Äù was the reply; ‚Äúbut I repeat that it is your business to ascertain what has become of him. The responsibility rests upon you.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúUpon me!‚Äù rejoined the first voice. ‚ÄúAnd what about you? Your position is a pretty fishy one if it comes to that.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat!‚Äù roared the other. ‚ÄúDo you insinuate that I murdered my own brother?‚Äù</p>
			<p>During this amazing colloquy I had stood gaping with sheer astonishment. Suddenly I recollected myself, and dropping into a chair, set my elbows on my knees and clapped my hands over my ears; and thus I must have remained for a full minute when I became aware of the closing of a door behind me.</p>
			<p>I sprang to my feet and turned in some embarrassment (for I must have looked unspeakably ridiculous) to confront the somber figure of a rather tall and strikingly handsome girl, who, as she stood with her hand on the knob of the door, saluted me with a formal bow. In an instantaneous glance I noted how perfectly she matched her strange surroundings. Black-robed, black-haired, with black-gray eyes and a grave sad face of ivory pallor, she stood, like one of old Terborch‚Äôs portraits, a harmony in tones so low as to be but one step removed from monochrome. Obviously a lady in spite of the worn and rusty dress, and something in the poise of the head and the set of the straight brows hinted at a spirit that adversity had hardened rather than broken.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI must ask you to forgive me for keeping you waiting,‚Äù she said; and as she spoke a certain softening at the corners of the austere mouth reminded me of the absurd position in which she had found me.</p>
			<p>I murmured that the trifling delay was of no consequence whatever; that I had, in fact, been rather glad of the rest; and I was beginning somewhat vaguely to approach the subject of the invalid when the voice from the adjoining room again broke forth with hideous distinctness.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI tell you I‚Äôll do nothing of the kind! Why, confound you, it‚Äôs nothing less than a conspiracy that you‚Äôre proposing!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Miss Bellingham‚ÅÝ‚Äîas I assumed her to be‚ÅÝ‚Äîstepped quickly across the floor, flushing angrily, as well she might; but, as she reached the door, it flew open and a small, spruce, middle-aged man burst into the room.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYour father is mad, Ruth!‚Äù he exclaimed; ‚Äúabsolutely stark mad! And I refuse to hold any further communication with him.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe present interview was not of his seeking,‚Äù Miss Bellingham replied coldly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, it was not,‚Äù was the wrathful rejoinder; ‚Äúit was my mistaken generosity. But there‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat is the use of talking? I‚Äôve done my best for you and I‚Äôll do no more. Don‚Äôt trouble to let me out; I can find my way. Good morning.‚Äù With a stiff bow and a quick glance at me, the speaker strode out of the room, banging the door after him.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI must apologize for this extraordinary reception,‚Äù said Miss Bellingham; ‚Äúbut I believe medical men are not easily astonished. I will introduce you to your patient now.‚Äù She opened the door and, as I followed her into the adjoining room, she said: ‚ÄúHere is another visitor for you, dear. Doctor‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBerkeley,‚Äù said I. ‚ÄúI am acting for my friend Doctor Barnard.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The invalid, a fine-looking man of about fifty-five, who sat propped up in bed with a pile of pillows, held out an excessively shaky hand, which I grasped cordially, making a mental note of the tremor.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow do you do, sir?‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝBellingham. ‚ÄúI hope Doctor Barnard is not ill.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, no,‚Äù I answered; ‚Äúhe has gone for a trip down the Mediterranean on a currant ship. The chance occurred rather suddenly, and I bustled him off before he had time to change his mind. Hence my rather unceremonious appearance, which I hope you will forgive.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot at all,‚Äù was the hearty response. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm delighted to hear that you sent him off; he wanted a holiday, poor man. And I am delighted to make your acquaintance, too.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt is very good of you,‚Äù I said; whereupon he bowed as gracefully as a man may who is propped up in bed with a heap of pillows; and having thus exchanged broadsides of civility, so to speak, we‚ÅÝ‚Äîor, at least, I‚ÅÝ‚Äîproceeded to business.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow long have you been laid up?‚Äù I asked cautiously, not wishing to make too evident the fact that my principal had given me no information respecting his case.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúA week today,‚Äù he replied. ‚ÄúThe <i xml:lang="la">fons et origo mali</i> was a hansom-cab which upset me opposite the Law Courts‚ÅÝ‚Äîsent me sprawling in the middle of the road. My own fault, of course‚ÅÝ‚Äîat least, the cabby said so, and I suppose he knew. But that was no consolation to me.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWere you hurt much?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, not really; but the fall bruised my knee rather badly and gave me a deuce of a shake up. I‚Äôm too old for that sort of thing, you know.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMost people are,‚Äù said I.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTrue; but you can take a cropper more gracefully at twenty than at fifty-five. However, the knee is getting on quite well‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou shall see it presently‚ÅÝ‚Äîand you observe that I am giving it complete rest. But that isn‚Äôt the whole of the trouble or the worst of it. It‚Äôs my confounded nerves. I‚Äôm as irritable as the devil and as nervous as a cat. And I can‚Äôt get a decent night‚Äôs rest.‚Äù</p>
			<p>I recalled the tremulous hand that he had offered me. He did not look like a drinker, but still‚ÅÝ‚Äî</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDo you smoke much?‚Äù I inquired diplomatically.</p>
			<p>He looked at me slyly and chuckled. ‚ÄúThat‚Äôs a very delicate way to approach the subject, Doctor,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúNo, I don‚Äôt smoke much, and I don‚Äôt crook my little finger. I saw you look at my shaky hand just now‚ÅÝ‚Äîoh, it‚Äôs all right; I‚Äôm not offended. It‚Äôs a doctor‚Äôs business to keep his eyelids lifting. But my hand is steady enough as a rule, when I‚Äôm not upset, but the least excitement sets me shaking like a jelly. And the fact is that I have just had a deucedly unpleasant interview‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI think,‚Äù Miss Bellingham interrupted, ‚ÄúDoctor Berkeley and, indeed, the neighborhood at large, are aware of the fact.‚Äù</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝBellingham laughed rather shamefacedly. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm afraid I did lose my temper,‚Äù he said; ‚Äúbut I am an impulsive old fellow, Doctor, and when I‚Äôm put out I‚Äôm apt to speak my mind‚ÅÝ‚Äîa little too bluntly perhaps.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd audibly,‚Äù his daughter added. ‚ÄúDo you know that Doctor Berkeley was reduced to the necessity of stopping his ears?‚Äù She glanced at me as she spoke, with something like a twinkle in her solemn gray eyes.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDid I shout?‚Äù <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝBellingham asked, not very contritely, I thought, though he added: ‚ÄúI‚Äôm very sorry, my dear; but it won‚Äôt happen again. I think we‚Äôve seen the last of that good gentleman.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI am sure I hope so,‚Äù she rejoined, adding: ‚ÄúAnd now I will leave you to your talk; I shall be in the next room if you should want me.‚Äù</p>
			<p>I opened the door for her, and when she had passed out with a stiff little bow I seated myself by the bedside and resumed the consultation. It was evidently a case of nervous breakdown, to which the cab accident had, no doubt, contributed. As to the other antecedents, they were of no concern of mine, though <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝBellingham seemed to think otherwise, for he resumed: ‚ÄúThat cab business was the last straw, you know, and it finished me off, but I have been going down the hill for a long time. I‚Äôve had a lot of trouble during the last two years. But I suppose I oughtn‚Äôt to pester you with the details of my personal affairs.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnything that bears on your present state of health is of interest to me if you don‚Äôt mind telling it,‚Äù I said.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMind!‚Äù he exclaimed. ‚ÄúDid you ever meet an invalid who didn‚Äôt enjoy talking about his own health? It‚Äôs the listener who minds, as a rule.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, the present listener doesn‚Äôt,‚Äù I said.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThen,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝBellingham, ‚ÄúI‚Äôll treat myself to the luxury of telling you all my troubles; I don‚Äôt often get the chance of a confidential grumble to a responsible man of my own class. And I really have some excuses for railing at Fortune, as you will agree when I tell you that, a couple of years ago, I went to bed one night a gentleman of independent means and excellent prospects and woke up in the morning to find myself practically a beggar. Not a cheerful experience that, you know, at my time of life, eh?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo,‚Äù I agreed, ‚Äúnor at any other.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd that was not all,‚Äù he continued; ‚Äúfor at the same moment I lost my brother, my dearest, kindest friend. He disappeared‚ÅÝ‚Äîvanished off the face of the earth; but perhaps you have heard of the affair. The confounded papers were full of it at the time.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He paused abruptly, noticing, no doubt, a sudden change in my face. Of course I recollected the case now. Indeed, ever since I had entered the house some chord of memory had been faintly vibrating, and now his last words had struck out the full note.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes,‚Äù I said, ‚ÄúI remember the incident, though I don‚Äôt suppose I should but for the fact that our lecturer on medical jurisprudence drew my attention to it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIndeed,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝBellingham, rather uneasily, as I fancied. ‚ÄúWhat did he say about it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe referred to it as a case that was calculated to give rise to some very pretty legal complications.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBy Jove!‚Äù exclaimed Bellingham, ‚Äúthat man was a prophet! Legal complications, indeed! But I‚Äôll be bound he never guessed at the sort of infernal tangle that has actually gathered round the affair. By the way, what was his name?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThorndyke,‚Äù I replied. ‚ÄúDoctor John Thorndyke.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThorndyke,‚Äù <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝBellingham repeated in a musing, retrospective tone. ‚ÄúI seem to remember the name. Yes, of course. I have heard a legal friend of mine, a <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMarchmont, speak of him in reference to the case of a man whom I knew slightly years ago‚ÅÝ‚Äîa certain Jeffrey Blackmore, who also disappeared very mysteriously. I remember now that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr>¬ÝThorndyke unraveled that case with most remarkable ingenuity.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI daresay he would be very much interested to hear about your case,‚Äù I suggested.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI daresay he would,‚Äù was the reply; ‚Äúbut one can‚Äôt take up a professional man‚Äôs time for nothing, and I couldn‚Äôt afford to pay him. And that reminds me that I‚Äôm taking up your time by gossiping about purely personal affairs.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy morning round is finished,‚Äù said I, ‚Äúand, moreover, your personal affairs are highly interesting. I suppose I mustn‚Äôt ask what is the nature of the legal entanglement?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot unless you are prepared to stay here for the rest of the day and go home a raving lunatic. But I‚Äôll tell you this much: the trouble is about my poor brother‚Äôs will. In the first place it can‚Äôt be administered because there is not sufficient evidence that my brother is dead; and in the second place, if it could, all the property would go to people who were never intended to benefit. The will itself is the most diabolically exasperating document that was ever produced by the perverted ingenuity of a wrongheaded man. That‚Äôs all. Will you have a look at my knee?‚Äù</p>
			<p>As <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝBellingham‚Äôs explanation (delivered in a rapid crescendo and ending almost in a shout) had left him purple-faced and trembling, I thought it best to bring our talk to an end. Accordingly I proceeded to inspect the injured knee, which was now nearly well, and to overhaul my patient generally; and having given him detailed instructions as to his general conduct, I rose and took my leave.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd remember,‚Äù I said as I shook his hand, ‚ÄúNo tobacco, no coffee, no excitement of any kind. Lead a quiet, bovine life.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs all very well,‚Äù he grumbled, ‚Äúbut supposing people come here and excite me?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDisregard them,‚Äù said I, ‚Äúand read <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Whitaker‚Äôs Almanac</i>.‚Äù And with this parting advice I passed out into the other room.</p>
			<p>Miss Bellingham was seated at the table with a pile of blue-covered notebooks before her, two of which were open, displaying pages closely written in a small, neat handwriting. She rose as I entered and looked at me inquiringly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI heard you advising my father to read <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Whitaker‚Äôs Almanac</i>,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúWas that a curative measure?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúEntirely,‚Äù I replied. ‚ÄúI recommended it for its medicinal virtues, as an antidote to mental excitement.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She smiled faintly. ‚ÄúIt certainly is not a highly emotional book,‚Äù she said, and then asked: ‚ÄúHave you any other instructions to give?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, I might give the conventional advice‚ÅÝ‚Äîto maintain a cheerful outlook and avoid worry; but I don‚Äôt suppose you would find it very helpful.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo,‚Äù she answered bitterly; ‚Äúit is a counsel of perfection. People in our position are not a very cheerful class, I‚Äôm afraid; but still they don‚Äôt seek out worries from sheer perverseness. The worries come unsought. But, of course, you can‚Äôt enter into that.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI can‚Äôt give any practical help, I fear, though I do sincerely hope that you father‚Äôs affairs will straighten themselves out soon.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She thanked me for my good wishes and accompanied me down to the street door, where, with a bow and a rather stiff handshake, she gave me my <i xml:lang="fr">cong√©</i>.</p>
			<p>Very ungratefully the noise of Fetter Lane smote on my ears as I came out through the archway, and very squalid and unrestful the little street looked when contrasted with the dignity and monastic quiet of the old garden. As to the surgery, with its oilcloth floor and walls made hideous with gaudy insurance show-cards in sham gilt frames, its aspect was so revolting that I flew to the daybook for distraction, and was still busily entering the morning‚Äôs visits when the bottle-boy, Adolphus, entered stealthily to announce lunch.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
